More NDIS detail (#48)
microsoft/quic-offloads: time-based-packet-transmission-offload.md

  - [Sending Packets](#sending-packets)
- [TCPIP](#tcpip)
- [NDIS](#ndis)
- [Registry value based setting](#registry-value-based-setting)
- [Appendix](#appendix)

>   - [Linix](#linix)

Reviewer: Linix -> Linux

## Sending Packets
The app calls `WSASendMsg`.   
The app passes ancillary data in the form of `TPTO_ANCILLARY_DATA`.
```C
typedef struct _TPTO_ANCILLARY_DATA {
    uint64_t TxTime;
    uint64_t TimeDelta;
} TPTO_ANCILLARY_DATA;
```

- TxTime to indicate when the associated packet is sent

> - TimeDelta is to spread batching packets

Reviewer 2: "TimeDelta is to spread batching packets"- what does this mean?

Author: This is for LSO/USO to transmit segmented packet with interval of TimeDelta

> - TimeDelta is an interval to transmit segmented packets by LSO/USO

Reviewer 2: The updated text still doesn't make it clear what this means. You need text like "time by which packets in an LSO send should be spread out". (But also, that's not the plan, right? It seems like small bursts of a few packets should be alright and more efficient.)

Author: I and Nick discussed yesterday. It is also mentioned in Issue
https://github.com/microsoft/quic-offloads/issues/49

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- TimeDelta is an interval, starting at `TxTime`, to transmit individual packets that have been coalesced into a single send (by LSO/USO)
```

> To avoid costly behavior like packet recovery, just send immediately if the packet's TxTime has passed already. (Do not set DropIfRate flag)

Author: DropIfLate.....🫣
Yes Yi recommended to remove DropIfLate. Just send immediately.
Sorry, I thought DropIfLate (DROP_IF_RATE) flag is common for TPTO context

```

To obtain the `NDIS_TCP_IP_TXTIME_NET_BUFFER_LIST_INFO` structure, a driver should call the `NET_BUFFER_LIST_INFO` macro with an _Id of `TcpIpTxTimeNetBufferListInfo`
```C
typedef struct _NDIS_TCP_IP_TXTIME_NET_BUFFER_LIST_INFO {
  struct {
    ULONG IsIPv4 : 1;
    ULONG IsIPv6 : 1;
    ULONG IsTcp : 1;

>     ULONG IsUdp : 1;

Reviewer: Why would the NIC want to know it's a V4 or V6 packet? The same goes for TCP and UDP too.

Reviewer 3: If we can, I definitely would prefer to eliminate this extra stuff too.

Reviewer 4: Or can we leverage existing OOBs? E.g. reuse some checksum offload fields? It's crazy that each offload has an "IsIpv6" flag...

>     ULONG TxTime : 64;

Reviewer: ULONG 64bit?

Reviewer: Also, I don't think we can use more than 32 bits in this struct. Each NBL OOB info field is actually a PVOID, which can only fit 32 bits.

Reviewer 4: We should scope this offload to 64-bit systems only if that reduces our OOB complexity. I can't imagine these offloads being relevant for 32 platforms.

Reviewer 3: The only 32-bit platforms MSFT ships now are x86 for Client SKU. Server is all 64-bit. I'd be perfectly happy scoping to 64-bit if we need to.

Reviewer: I am not sure what this TxTime represents. If it takes 64 bits, we still can't fit it in a NBL oob.

Author: It is time an associated packet to be sent.

Reviewer: I know it's time but what is the reference and unit?

Author: I'm investigating how windows get time, but Linux set txtime from userspace as bellow
```C
	struct timespec ts;
	int cnt, err;
	__u64 txtime;

	clock_gettime(clkid, &ts);

	/* Start one to two seconds in the future. */
	ts.tv_sec += 1;
	ts.tv_nsec = 1000000000 - waketx_delay;
	normalize(&ts);

	txtime = ts.tv_sec * 1000000000ULL + ts.tv_nsec;
	txtime += waketx_delay;
```

>     ULONG DropIfRate : 1;

Reviewer: what is `DropIfRate`?

Author: Drop the packet if the packet arrived after deadline specified by TxTime. (Not sure here is the right place)

Reviewer: We should not drop a packet for this reason. If it's later than the deadline, then we send it immediately. It's costly to recover this packet in TCP and it triggers congestion avoidance for no reason.

Author: Linux has the option though (I think, it means hardware has the feature already)

Reviewer 3: For real-time applications where they don't care about loss, the drop might be ok? That being said, I kind of agree that this seems unnecessary and over complicates the design. Let's simplify things by removing support for this.

Reviewer: Do you mind sharing a link? I am curious to learn why linux has it.

Author: As far as I undnerstand, the queue seems to be allocated on system/hardware. depends on offloading config (there is no explicit explanation though)

  } Transmit;
  struct {
    ULONG TcpTxTimeFailed : 1;
    ULONG UdpTxTimeFailed : 1;

>   } TransmitComplete;

Reviewer: Is this really needed? Can we just ask the NIC to set NBL::Status?

Reviewer: Even if needed, we should union this struct with Transmit.

```

To obtain the `NDIS_TCP_IP_TXTIME_NET_BUFFER_LIST_INFO` structure, a driver should call the `NET_BUFFER_LIST_INFO` macro with an _Id of `TcpIpTxTimeNetBufferListInfo`
```C
typedef struct _NDIS_TCP_IP_TXTIME_NET_BUFFER_LIST_INFO {
  struct {
    ULONG IsIPv4 : 1;
    ULONG IsIPv6 : 1;
    ULONG IsTcp : 1;
    ULONG IsUdp : 1;
    ULONGLONG TxTime : 64;
    ULONGLONG TimeDelta : 64;

>   } Transmit;

Reviewer: Pacing only makes sense for TX. No need to wrap everything in `Transmit.` It's implicit.

Author: I'm investigating whether TransmitComplete is required for TPTO....

Author: Only TxTime and TimeDelta should be enough
